W-10588797-xml-module-troubleshooting-kt (#1882)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: xml/1.3/modules/ROOT/pages/xml-module-troubleshooting.adoc

= Troubleshooting XML Module - Mule 4

To troubleshoot XML module, become familiar with the information about enabling verbose logging and interpreting commonly thrown messages.

== Enable Verbose Logging

To get a better understanding of why an application's interaction with the XML Module is failing, temporarily enable verbose logging for XML module. +

Remember to always disable the enhanced verbosity after troubleshooting because it affects your Mule application performance.

> To enable verbose logging in the configuration file:

Reviewer: Is there another way to enable verbose logging for this module? If not, I suggest "To enable verbose logging:"

. Access Anypoint Studio and navigate to the *Package Explorer* view.

> . Open your application's project name.

Reviewer: You use "app" instead of "application later on.

  (set debug level logging or '-Dmule.verbose.exceptions=true' for everything)
********************************************************************************
```

This error occurs because the access was restricted in the XML module global element configuration by setting the *Expand entities* field to the default value of *NEVER*. This value prevents XXE (XML External Entity) and DoS (Denial of Service) attacks.

To resolve this issue, set the *Expand entities* field to *INTERNAL*:

. In Studio, open your project and access your Mule app flow.
. Navigate to the *Global Element* tab.
. Select the *XML Config* configuration and click *Edit*.
. In the *Global Element Properties* window, set the *Expand entities* field to *INTERNAL*.
. Click *OK*.

image::xml-validate-schema-4.png[XML module global configuration Expand entities field]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `<expandEntities>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<xml-module:config name="XML_Config" expandEntities="INTERNAL"/>
----

== Understand Common Throws

> Here is a list of common throw messages and how to interpret them:

Reviewer: I would alphabetize these.

* XML-MODULE:INVALID_INPUT_XML

 The input document is not a valid XML.

* XML-MODULE:INVALID_SCHEMA

 The supplied schema is invalid.

* XML-MODULE:SCHEMA_NOT_FOUND

 The schema could not be found.

* XML-MODULE:SCHEMA_NOT_HONOURED

>  The input XML document does not honour its schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The input XML document does not adhere to its schema.
```

>  The input XML document does not honour its schema.

Reviewer: "does not adhere to its schema" 

If you want to keep "honour," change it to "honor," which is the American spelling.
